All right, in this video we are gonna look at
refactoring our data model for MongoDB
to not use DBRefs.
And this is in relation to the "Reactive Driver does not
support DBRefs" I imagine that's something
internal to MongoDB because the team does not use that.
Just to recap, you can see down on the bottom of the screen
here a comment from Oliver Gierke,
he's on the Spring Data team, he's one of the leaders there
real sharp guy, he mentions that DBRefs are not recommended
by the MongoDB team and sometimes it's useful to use them
but in our data model we're only using them for references,
so pretty easy to refactor them out.
So, I'm gonna go over to IntelliJ
I've already done the coding,
but we're gonna step through that.
And what we've got here
as you can see
I've removed the DBRef annotation
here on Category, Ingredient as well.
So you can see that has now gone off of the UnitOfMeasure.
And Recipe, ofcourse, had a reference to Category,
don't want a debug point
I'll show you the change there.
And just as a quick tip here, I don't know
if you knew that you could do this
inside of IntelliJ, but I can come over here
and come to, just did a right-click
and I'm gonna go down to "Compare with Branch"
and our last branch was refactor-ingredient-service
and what I can do is come up here
and now I can see each one of these.
If I double-click on that,
it'll bring me up a comparison screen.
So, a real quick way that you can go in
and compare and contrast what's going on
with changes so you can see changes along the way.
And I can come in here and we can see that
I actually made a number of changes
to the IngredientRepository, so actually
I'd like to use this and step through it.
So I've now removed the non-reactive
RecipeRepository from this,
so I can see now I have no longer the RecipeRepository
is being injected but I do have
the ReactiveRepository remaining
and got rid of some of the commented-out code there,
you can see there on the left-hand-side, that is gone.
And you can see that we were using
the traditional repository where we're getting
an Optional back, now we are going to get a Mono back
and you can see on line 57 there
when we go to save that Ingredient command,
we are doing a block, so this is because
we need to do some business logic against it.
Probably, might be able to get away with doing something
a little fancier here with the reactive stuff
I'm not quite there yet, but we do wanna apply some
business logic and modify that object as we are
trying to save that IngredientCommand.
So we're gonna update the Ingredients on the Recipe object
and then finally down here
no further changes there
and then in the delete method we had
a few more changes, again we went from
just doing a findById but now we need to do a
findById and then block to get that object,
the Recipe object,
because in the delete of an Ingredient, remember
we're updating, we're actually doing an update to
a document inside of MongoDB.
You can see here also on line 136
went from doing just the save and then here
we're doing a save and a block.
That block is going to block it
and tell it to execute, cause if you forget to
do that block on a save operation,
the save doesn't persist until
something actually triggers that change.
Let's go ahead and close this.
Also, come down here
and I'm gonna do the same thing here,
come into Git, Compare with Branch,
and we'll go back to that refactor-ingredient-service
and our IngredientServiceTest did change.
Now we can see that I removed the RecipeRepository
because we had both going in there
we no longer need both of them.
And scrolling down here we can see the additional
changes, no longer having to create a
Optional there on line 100,
and we updated the mockito mock to return back a Mono
instead of the Optional.
And then on 140, can see that we updated the
recipeRepository to recipeReactiveRepository
and then finally in our test by, deleteById
we also need to add in on line 124 there a return
of the save, to return back a Mono
because on that, we're gonna do a save
and return back that Mono and we're gonna
do a block on it inside the service method.
So if we don't return back the Mono
when we call that block we get a null pointer error.
And then, finally, at the bottom there we've
refactored the test to use the reactive repository.
Let's go ahead and close this
and we'll run all our tests, just to be sure.
And we can see that all our tests will run here
everything's passing, so everything's happy
and I also have the application up in Chrome.
I already had it started here for us, to take a look at.
So again, we are working with the ingredients
so I can view with this, go to the Ingredients
and you can see that I'm able to delete one,
I can go in and update it, let's change this to six.
Updated that so now we can see that
the basic CRUD operations are working
for our ingredients and our Ingredient operations
are under the reactive model, so our data model
is now refactored to remove those DBRefs
and our code is refactored to use the reactive repository
and the reactive types.